Q1  if consumer processes a messaage and beofre commting an offset it crashed ,what would happend
and how we can handle duplicate processing.

Answer: Kafka would do rebalancing and some other consumer will pick form the last commited message
so it would pick this message as well but we make sure that comsumer operation should be idempotent
for this we can make some unique id for tha message so if that id is already present in Db we can 
skip that opertaion if some thing is already done dont do it again or we can wrap that in a
transaction before commiting an offset it should commit transaction only.
DB transaction
    ↓
process business operation
    ↓
DB commit
    ↓
Kafka offset commit
Then if it crashes after DB commit but before Kafka offset commit:

DB commit ✅
Kafka offset ❌

The message gets processed again, but because the DB operation is idempotent, duplicate processing 
doesn't cause a duplicate business effect.


Q2 How would you reduce latency if api has n number of downstream calls

Like we can use async library to call these calls simultaneous like in node js we have promise.all[] 
if sequence does not matter for these calls

or

"First, I'd identify dependencies between the downstream calls. For independent calls, I'd execute them 
concurrently instead of sequentially, which reduces latency from roughly the sum of all call latencies
to the latency of the slowest call. In Node.js I can use Promise.all(). For dependent calls,
I'd maintain the required ordering. I'd also add timeouts, caching, and appropriate fallback 
behavior so that one slow or failing downstream service doesn't unnecessarily increase the 
latency or take down the entire API."



Q3 "How will you scale your distributed rate limiter?"
we can use redis cluster for hadling state so keys are will be distributed across cluster.
We can also expire inactive keys as well by setting TTL.


Q4 Mutex lock:
Mutual exclusion lock can be implemented by three strategies, 
1: Synchronized 
2. Reetrantlock
3. semaphore

static class Mutex{
    private Lock lock=new Reetrantlock();
    int counter=0;
        public void increment(){
            lock.lock();
            try{
                counter++;
            }
            finally(){
                lock.unlock();
            }
        }  
}
Mutex.increment();
The lock applies to the code between lock.lock() and lock.unlock() by convention/design.

Q5 ReetrantReadWritelock

ReetrantReadWritelock : this lock is advance in providing the Synchronization when multiple thread 
can read the data when no write lock is there.
when some thread holds write lock no thread can read.